https://www.reddit.com/r/GeminiAI/comments/1q6ds2a/my_experience_with_gemini_3_pro_for_medical
@StaphAttack
My experience with Gemini 3 Pro for Medical Diagnosis and Treatment
So my health is an onion. 9 yrs ago I started having shoulder issues, which lead to undiagnosed positional sleep apnea, which lead to EBV, which lead to chronic fatigue and pain. I've been back full time at work for 3 yrs, but couldn't do much beyond that. In the last 6 months my health took a nose dive due to the shoulder issues becoming major nerve issues. This drove me to reach out about newish treatments I haven't tried. I started NAD+ injections and immediately began to feel like a human being.
I downloaded Gemini Pro as a goof to make stupid videos, but I was curious about the NAD and asked it a simple question. "NAD+ injections are really helping with my chronic fatigue, what else could I benefit from." This lead into a 3 hr conversation with Gemini about my health history and symptoms, what has helped, what hasn't helped. In that time it provided me a diagnosis for my chronic fatigue and pain, which was confirmed with follow on blood work.
Since then, I have been using it daily. I provided it all of my health history and supplement protocol and we worked together to revise it given all of my health issues. It made personal and detailed recommendations, including dosing and time of day, to improve my energy, sleep, and pain. I even provided it with my MRI results to review for my nerve issues, and it helped me, along side my doctors, to come up with cross discipline plan to address my issue (combining physical therapy, sleep therapy, and regenerative medicine). It even correctly diagnosed my issue with my CPAP, that 3 doctor's couldn't figure out.
My pain is down, I'm sleeping better, I can see clearly, I'm losing weight. I've been able to spend more meaningful time with my kids, taking them out, playing games, working on projects.
TLDR: Gemini Pro correctly diagnosed my chronic issues in 3 hrs, something that multiple doctors over several years could not do. It has significantly helped me improve my quality of life and I am on a road to a full recovery.
#date
2026-01
#tags
health, Gemini
