https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPT/comments/1uahhpq/comment/osokes1
@Mediochra
ChatGPT helped me figure out my daughter’s meds. She has special needs and the doctors suspect bipolar or BPD but she’s too young for a diagnosis. She also has an intellectual disability and struggles to verbalize how her meds are making her feel day to day. We were seeing major behavioral episodes. She was hospitalized twice last year and we had the sheriffs out to our house three times to help peacefully de-escalate when she would become aggressive and start tearing up the house.

I gave ChatGPT a list of her medications, her medical history, and her most recent neuropsych exam. We spent weeks monitoring her behavior by keeping a log and tracking when the episodes occurred. We discovered that she was on two meds that were actually causing severe agitation and manic episodes, and it was ChatGPT that caught it. We did a full med wash and started completely over on meds. When she was off the meds, she was a totally different kid. She still had behavioral issues but the hours-long rage episodes and attempts to self harm all stopped overnight when we took her off all that crap. We started over with one mood stabilizer and a non-stimulant adhd med. It’s like a miracle. I don’t even know how to explain it. She went from not being able to sit through a dr appointment without hitting me and cussing at everyone to cooperating with her therapies without me having to even be present. She went from room wrecking and cussing out teachers to being much more cooperative in the classroom and they’re planning on moving her from the self-contained class to mainstreaming her when she starts high school in August. We went from resigning ourselves to having to admit her to a residential treatment center to completely abandoning those plans because the house has been so peaceful and joyful. I could just sit here and listen to her laugh all day. She’s happier and so much better adjusted. We can actually have rational conversations with her now. It’s… I mean it’s just a miracle.

We absolutely ran every decision by the medical professionals involved in her care. The problem is that the doctors only see her for about ten minutes once a month at most. I spent probably a full month tracking her every move around the clock and feeding the data to ChatGPT and independently studying everything that it said to make sure it made sense. Then I ran it by the doctors and then we made incremental adjustments.

I don’t want to tell anyone to take medical advice from ChatGPT because I know there is a lot of risk there. But it very well could have saved my child’s life.
#date
2026-06
#tags
health, family-and-relationships, ChatGPT
