https://www.reddit.com/r/GeminiAI/comments/1rngalv/gemini_saved_my_life/
@Level_Run1357
Gemini Saved My Life

Gemini saved my life last night. I recently moved into a new apartment (built in the past two years) and decided to make a pizza. I preheated the oven and my boyfriend and I noticed wispy white smoke coming out of the oven that smelled like plastic/chemicals. We called my mom who suggested it might be burn off from being a new oven that perhaps hadn’t been used before. 

We decided to let it preheat and see if the smell/smoke went away. Dumb looking back. We started going about our business. I don’t remember too much about what happened after that but I know I was in my room looking up how long the burn off would last on Gemini. My boyfriend had come in the bedroom and fallen asleep on the bed. Suddenly, my eyes started to burn and itch. I asked Gemini and it said to get out. 

I immediately jumped up and woke my boyfriend. We ran out of the apartment but I could barely find the door I was so dizzy and lightheaded. Once we were out, we realized how bad it had become. For some reason, we didn’t think we felt weird until we had left. 

We let it air out and went back many hours later. We realized we had done some weird things without remembering. I had toilet paper out all over the place and had wrapped items up in paper towels. I had packed a cooler with supplies? He had duct taped the oven for no apparent reason and did not remember ever coming into the room or laying in the bed. We had headaches, felt heaviness in our chests, and my muscles were twitching like crazy. We called poison control and they told us it was either toxic gas due to wiring or some plastic or CO. They had to call us to check on us later. 

So lucky I was on Gemini as I had no clue what was going on. I don’t think we would have left if I didn’t see that response from Gemini. No detectors ever went off. I’m still stunned we sat in that gas/smoke for over 20 minutes and did nothing about it. Clearly we were already not fully with it. Sounds really wild but AI literally saved our lives.
#date
2026-03
#tags
health, daily-life, Gemini
